>>Anyone who's been
involved in architecture
or sacred geometry, or
any kind of geometry,
or various fields
of engineering,
will probably know these shapes.
The most familiar
one is the cube.
There's five of
them all together.
I'll just quickly
give them to you.
There's the tetrahedron,
tetra means four,
because there's four faces.
And there is the
hexahedron, or the cube,
hexa meaning six faces.
Then there is the octahedron,
meaning eight faces.
And the icosahedron,
meaning 20 faces.
And finally, the dodecahedron,
meaning 12 faces.
Now, are all five
of these things
have something very
special about them
that no other forms
in the universe have.
There are certain
rules, and the rules
are if you could create a
form that has only one edge
length throughout
the entire form,
only one face-- this
only has one face.
Same face, same edge
length-- only one angle.
This is 90 degrees,
and this one.
Every angle is 90 degrees.
There's only one angle,
one face, and one edge,
and all the points
of this substance
would fit on the
surface of a sphere.
That criteria comes
up with five shapes,
the ones I just gave you.
And believe me, they have
really tried to find other ones,
and they don't exist.
There is a way to
create two more
which are based on
motion and movement,
but that's a high-level
subject, and it's
not important for right now.
And so you'll say to yourself,
well, again, so what?
What about these shapes?
Well, they were eventually
named after Plato,
so they're called
the Platonic solids.
So I don't know if that's
a really good name or not.
He was not the one
that invented it.
Of course, nobody invented them.
They've just been here
since the beginning.
And his teacher was Pythagoras,
who was the first one
to introduce them into our new
world that we're talking about.
And Pythagoras got his
information from Thoth,
because he said so, who
brought them from much older.
They have found
these shapes that man
has made 20,000 years ago,
20,000 year old stones carved
into five Platonic solids.
I don't even know if
they know who did them,
but they know they're that old.
If you read into sacred geometry
books about these five shapes--
I'm trying to keep these
things from reflecting
in people's eyes.
They're like mirrors.
Maybe I should get one that's
not quite so big a mirror.
And if you read books like
Keith Critchlow or Buckminster
Fuller, Robert Lawler,
any of these guys,
you begin to realize
the importance of these.
They're like the major,
major primary building
blocks of the universe.
Their relationship
is just everywhere,
in all kinds of ways,
throughout nature.
Everywhere.
And it's just amazing
how many places there are
that they have importance in.
And yet when you come
right down to it,
and you ask any of these guys,
or read any of these books
to try to find out,
what generated them?
Where they come from?
What is the source that
was behind these things?
There's silence.
Nobody knows.
But what the angels say it
is, there's your source.
That's what created.
It's the first
system of knowledge
that came out of
Metatron's cube.
You're now looking at-- well,
with the lines that I've
got on this page right now,
you're looking at four of them.
And I'll explain where the
fifth one is in just a moment.
I'm going to pull them
off of here one at a time
so you can see them, OK?
We'll talk about what
they are in a little bit.
Let's just get them
out of here first.
If you were to take out
this hexagon pattern out,
inside here you see another
hexagonal pattern, and then
the three lines that
go to the middle
and erase all the rest
of it, you'd get this.
Does everybody see that?
>>Mm-hm.
>>Does everybody see that
that's a cube within a cube?
>>Mm-hm.
>>Who doesn't?
It's a cube looking
at it from this edge.
Can you see that now?
You can?
So you're looking at
a cube from this view.
Well, that's where
your first one is.
Now, if you came
back here and you
were to take this triangle
here and this triangle here,
and then this little triangle
and this little one in here,
and then the lines that go
through the middle like that,
you do that, then you get this.
It looks like a Star of David.
Now, what that is, though,
is a three-dimensional shape,
a very specific one,
which is hard to see
what that is in there.
But if you shade
it in like this,
it's a star
tetrahedron, like this.
Can you see it?
Does everybody see it?
So when you get
the tetrahedrons,
you get two of them
interlocked, one
interlocked with the other one.
All five of these shapes
are masculine energy,
but everything has a polarity.
So even within maleness,
there's femaleness and maleness.
And within femaleness, there's
maleness and femaleness.
And same way with geometry--
though all five of these shapes
are male relative to the sphere,
some of these shapes are female
and something of them are male.
We'll see about that
in just a moment.
If you were take out this--
you see this rectangle,
which happens to be a
golden mean rectangle?
And if you were to
take that one out,
and this golden mean
rectangle that's down in here,
and just taking the big one, if
you were to take this line that
goes from here up to here
and that line that goes
from there to there, you'll
notice there's one, two, three,
four sides.
And then from there, you've got
another one coming down to here
and down to here.
And that forms is an octahedron.
I'll come over here
and I'll show you.
What you now have
is one of these,
only it's sitting at
this angle like that,
with one of the faces
flat to the other one.
So it's got a flat
part like that.
It's sitting like
that to the screen.
Does everybody see that?
>>It's hard.
That's a hard one.
>>It's harder, I know.
It's harder.
But you've got an octahedron.
Mathematically that is
the view of this thing.
This is a square, right?
It's a square.
But when you turn it,
it becomes a rectangle.
And if you turn
it just right, it
becomes a golden
mean rectangle, which
just happens to be the
view that is right there.
So it's an octahedron
inside of an octahedron.
Now, the next one
even gets harder.
It's where it goes--
if you were to erase
certain lines of the
original Metatron's cube,
you'll come up with this.
And this one is an icosahedron.
You're looking at
this form up there.
And I know it's hard.
You have a pentagonal cap on
the top and pentagonal cap
on the bottom, and 10 little
triangles around the middle.
And you can actually
count each one of them.
This is one face, two faces,
and this one from over here
is three faces.
This is the fourth face,
and this is the fifth face.
Four in the cap.
There's one on the bottom.
If you carefully count the
triangles moving around,
there's one, two,
three, four, five,
and this is six, seven, eight,
nine, and then this one is 10.
There are 10 triangles
moving around there.
Now that is identical
to what you were just
looking at a moment ago.
This is a drawing
by Sulamith Wulfing,
with the Christ child
inside of the icosahedron.
It's extremely appropriate
because this is the doorway
to Christ's consciousness.
And baptism is the doorway
into Christianity, right?
This in ancient terms was water.
Like fire, earth, air,
water, ether, this is water.
And this is the
baptism, or the doorway,
into Christ's consciousness.
So you can see the line is
straight across in the back,
like it was in the other one.
Straight across in the
bottom, forming the five
different patterns.
Now the sixth one--
I mean the fifth one,
excuse me-- the dodecahedron.
I mean, they told
me it was there.
And I started looking for
it, and I couldn't find it.
And I looked, and I looked and
looked and looked and looked.
And I spent 20-something
years looking for this thing,
and I never could find it.
And Mackey went
to look, after me
looking for 20-something
years, and in three days
she found a part of it, anyway.
That was the first time
I'd ever found anything.
I'll show you what she
found in just a moment.
She did something I
never even dreamed of.
She took Metatron's cube and
rotated it by the five ratio.
And this grid came,
which was incredible,
which she calls Eve's Grid.
Eve's Grid.
And I'll show you
that in a moment.
And she didn't even
know what it is.
And I'm beginning to understand
what that one is right now.
So I started looking
for this shape.
Couldn't find it.
At about two weeks ago
in the last workshop,
somebody-- one of the
students in here--
said, hey, you didn't
connect a certain point
to a certain point.
I go, I didn't?
And I realized on here-- here's
the whole Metatron's cube--
I had not connected
this point to that point
all the way around
in the whole pattern.
And so I have 12 missing
lines on Metatron's cube.
I don't know.
I just never saw it.
And so this is truly
Metatron's cube here.
Now that's all the spheres
connected by all of them,
like they instructed me to do.
And now with this
pattern, you're
now looking directly
at a dodecahedron.
It pops right out.
Here it is, in the red lines.
Everybody see that?
See the red lines on
the page on there?
The angles of these things,
the lines drawn from there,
exactly make the reflecting
angles of all the faces.
And you get a pentagonal
shape there, and one there.
These are the other five
sides at the sharp angles,
and it wraps back around.
And you have the other
side of it also--
I've got to see
it for a second--
if you were to draw that
line in there, that's
the pentagon on the backside.
There's the pentagon
back on the other side.
The whole thing is totally
three-dimensionally
wrapped around the entire thing.
The whole thing is
completely there.
>>Wow.
>>And so you're the first
ones to ever see this.
Nobody's ever seen this before.
And I was very
excited about that.
And there'll be another
one, a bigger one,
on the outside of this whole
thing that'll enclose all this,
if you wanted to
work it through.
So there were all
five of the shapes.
This is a clearer pattern of it.
And I have a whole
bunch of other slides
if I wanted to do
it, showing you
how you can take the spheres
out of the flower of life,
and there's a way where you
can show the ratios come up
with the length of an edge of a
tetrahedron relative to a cube
relative to a hexagon relative
edge of a five-sided pentagon
relative to a hexagon.
All four of those
edges are all lines
that are links found
in the flower of life.
But they're all
inter-related to each other.
This was the pattern
that Mackey found
by turning Metatron's cube
into a certain ratio, the five
ratio.
It has a central five-sided
pattern with a full five
that come off of there.
And if you just take one more
off of each one of those,
that's an unfolded dodecahedron.
But this is an
interesting pattern.
There's a man named Penrose
who made the Penrose pattern.
Was this Roger Penrose?
Is that his name?
Anybody know?
I can't remember.
And see, they've
always tried to make
five-sided shapes that will
cover a floor-- tile patterns.
But they never could
figure out how to do it.
And so he came up
with this little shape
here and another little shape,
which was a wider angled one.
He took that shape that
would form in there
and put those two
together, and you
can make Penrose patterns that
will cover a flat surface.
And it was kind of a
game for a long time.
And recently in
Scientific American,
they would have people--
it was just sort
of like this game that was
going on between the Scientific
American and people
who subscribed to that
to who could come up with
the newest Penrose pattern.
And then after that,
somebody had insight.
You see, there's something
called diffraction patterns,
where they shoot electron
beams-- x-ray patterns,
rather-- down through
crystalline structures,
and they can see where
the atoms are located.
And they only were able to
come up with certain patterns,
and thought that there
were only certain kinds
of crystalline
structures in existence.
And then one day,
somebody theorized
there had to be these, based
on the Penrose patterns.
And recently-- and we're talking
about like two years ago--
they discovered a new kind
of crystal in existence.
The crystal's always been there.
We just suddenly
became aware of it.
It's called a quasi crystal now.
They've now been able to
come up with the patterns,
the understanding
of it, and it's
opened up a whole new
level of crystallology.
Is that right?
Crystallology.
And the meaning of
it is they suspect
that pretty soon, they're going
to be able to make metals,
say, about 10 times as hard
as diamond, for example, based
on this.
And lots of other applications
will start coming out.
This one that they
don't know about yet.
This is one based on
pentagons, and the other one.
Every single line in here is
in the phi ratio-- golden mean
proportion.
Every single thing in it,
and all; crossing patterns.
Every line that you can
connect together synthetically
through there is golden
mean ratio of lines.
And it's got to be one
of the primary grids.
It's an area of research I'm
going to get into at one point.
Eventually in quasi
crystal studies,
I'll bet you they
come up with this grid
as being one of the
primary generating
sources of the patterns.
>>Is it similar to a honeycomb?
>>To a what?
>>Honeycomb.
>>No.
That's a hexagonal pattern,
which is a little different.
So you've got these five shapes.
Now that we've showed
you where they came from,
how they came out of
the flower of life,
through the fruit
of life pattern.
And I wanted to quickly show you
that the number relationship.
This one has four faces,
four corners, and six edges.
And the tetrahedron
is a real special one.
The hexagon, or the cube,
has six faces, eight corners,
and 12 edges.
The cube-- in
sacred geometry they
have something
that's called a dual.
A duel is if you
connect the faces--
this is one way of getting
to duals-- you connect
the centers of the
faces of this one,
and what you get
is an octahedron.
OK?
They're duals of each other.
And look at the numbers.
This one has six faces,
eight corners, and 12 edges.
And this one has eight faces,
six corners, and 12 edges.
Then you have the dodecahedron,
which has 12 faces, 20 corners,
and 30 edges.
If you connect the centers
of a dodecahedron together,
you get an icosahedron.
And again, 12 faces, 20 corners,
30 edges, 20 faces, 12 corners,
30 edges.
They're duals of each other.
You can take this as your
major building block,
and you can take
two tetrahedrons
and slip them together into a
star tetrahedron like this one.
Take two tetrahedrons, pass
them through each other
into a three-dimensional Star
of David, and you have a cube.
You can take five tetrahedrons
and put them together
in an icosahedronal
cap type thing,
and those will assemble
together into a dodecahedron.
But it takes 60
of them to do it.
I've been asked
many times about why
there are 72 orders to the
Great White Brotherhood.
And as you've probably
read this many times before
in other places, I don't know.
They're 72 orders, and the
first order is Alpha and Omega
Order of Melchizedek, and the
last order is the Brotherhood
of the Seven Rays.
Those are the two orders
that I'm connected with.
I know very little about
what's in the middle.
But the reason
there are 72 orders
is because these 72 orders
have one thing-- they
are to create the
Christ consciousness
grid around the planet.
And that grid is made
up of these two shapes.
And the creation
pattern is that there's
60 tetrahedrons in here, which
is the building block of this,
and there are 12 points
that are the center points
and the center of
each one of these
that form the icosahedron.
And the 60 plus
the 12 is the 72.
And so each one of the orders is
working with a different facet
or area of the grid of
the Christ consciousness
to create this on the Earth.
Remember, we started
as an octahedron,
and that's a view of an
octahedron from there.
That's that view
of the octahedron.
I like to use different ones.
There's three symmetrical
views of each one of these.
So remember, we started
with the octahedron,
then we went to the sphere.
That's the central column,
which is the neutral column.
Over here, the
tetrahedron and the cube
is literally your left brain.
Remember I said how the
triangle and square was
the logical side, it
was forward on the male?
And this is the female side,
the right side of the brain,
either of a person or a
planet or anything else.
And this is based on
five, the pentagon.
And so is this
based on five again,
when you say that
it's this thing.
And so this is
female, this is male,
and this child, or
neutral, aspect of life.
In terms of mathematical
relationships, they're endless.
You could just go on.
You could write reams
of books about all
the mathematical possibilities
that are all in there.
They're all interconnected
again and again and again.
One thing I do want to
mention is in alchemy,
there is something called
fire, earth, air, and water
that we hear about so often.
And the ancients believed
that the fire, earth, air,
and water and two
other substances
were the key to everything.
They usually only
talk about those four,
because they leave out
the most important one.
They always keep that secret,
and that one is sometimes
referred to as ether.
But ether and prana
are the same thing,
or ether and prana and tachyon
energy are the same thing.
It's all the same thing.
And again, this was the most
sacred shape of the ancients,
and this was the
one that was ether.
They all have amounts,
and I'll tell you
what they are right now.
This is according to
the Pythagorean school
and tied back to Egypt.
This one here, the
tetrahedron, was fire.
And it's a pyramid.
There's three-sided, four-sided,
and five-sided pyramids.
And pyramid means
fire in the midst.
And the cube is Earth,
stensas, matter.
And the octahedron is air.
It's the eight element
of the periodic table.
And the icosahedron is water.
And the dodecahedron is
ether, and the little sphere--
the sphere.
I have a little sphere--
the sphere is voidness.
There are six
elements that create
the universe-- voidness, fire,
earth, air, water, and ether.
And they all have shape,
as everything does.
And they happen to have the
primary shapes of the universe.
So these six shapes-- the
sphere, the tetrahedron,
the cube, the
octahedron, icosahedron,
and the dodecahedron are
the ABCs of the alphabet,
of the whole thing.
They're what creates the
underlying structures
that all structures
are based upon.
And these are just like some of
the mathematical relationships,
how one thing fits inside the
next and fits inside the next.
In sacred geometry
it's called nesting,
where one cube will
fit to the next one,
will form the next one,
will go to the next one.
You just couldn't
do this normally.
It acts like magic.
It's amazing what it can do.
To show you one
shape, here's a cube.
Does everybody see the cube?
>>Mm-hm.
>>Can you see the centers
of each of the faces
are connected together, forming
a little tiny octahedron
in the middle?
Does everybody see that?
Can you see it?
Does anybody not see it?
It's a little one of
these guys in the middle,
sitting like that.
So you have those
two linked together.
At the same time, it's
a star tetrahedron,
which is one of those guys that
you see sitting right there.
So a star tetrahedron has an
octahedron in the middle of it.
If you're going to make one,
you can just take an octahedron
and make those little
triangular shapes
and stick them on
each of the faces,
and you've got one of those.
And then you can make
fancy ones like this.
>>Wow.
>>Isn't that pretty?
OK.
Now after this, I'm about to
take this abstract information
that came out of the first
system of the fruit of life
and apply it directly
into life, so you
can see how life uses it.
We're going to first
look at crystals,
and then we're going to look at
biological life forms like you,
and see how in these
two areas this is used.
>>I don't understand those
two, why those are feminine.
>>It's kind of
like understanding
why a straight line is male
and a curved line is female.
It's something that you begin
to intuit after a while.
The longer you
work in the stuff,
you keep coming up with
these patterns tend
to be things that are
associated with male,
and these patterns tend to
be associated with female.
For example, the hexagon--
the cube is either
a square or a hexagon or an
octahedron, I mean eight-sided.
Anything that's four, six,
or eight is associated
with the cube, if you look at
life forms that are on Earth,
that are on land.
If you go into water, which is
female, you go into the oceans,
you'll find an
overwhelming number
of them are based on five,
like the starfish for example,
and the sand dollar.
And you can go on and
on and on and on and on.
A lot of this fiveness.
Now, there's going to be
exceptions on both sides.
There's going to be the-- what
do you call it?-- the octopus,
for example, has eight.
But if you list them
all, and if you see them,
you'll see this huge amount
that's fiveness down there
and sixness on land.
You can see where
the water aspect
pulls things more that
are female and more that
are five-sided.
So it's like you
start working this,
and it's more like an intuitive
thing to come up with this.
And then when you look
at the brain functions
and you start looking at the
logical patterns of the male,
they keep coming up being
three-sided and four-sided.
And the female side is
three-sided and five-sided.
>>But isn't all the males
inside the females there also?
>>What?
All the males inside the female?
>>Aren't they contained
in all those female--?
>>Each one of these contains
the others in various ways.
>>It's the circle around the
outside, what she's saying.
>>Oh.
Oh, the female contains
them all, yeah.
The female contains
all the male.
But the male also contains
all the other ones, too.
There's one male form that does.
There's two forms there
that are very special.
The sphere is the mommy,
and the cube is the daddy.
It's the big daddy.
And the sphere is the big momma.
And the mama will contain all
of the other five male shapes,
but the cube will also
contain all the other four
males, including the mommy.
None of the other ones will
do that, but this one will.
By that, in a very
special way, you
can take a sphere--
it's symmetrical.
You can put them in a cube.
You can take a sphere and
slide it right in there,
and it will symmetrically
touch perfectly.
And then you can
take the-- this one,
and it will fit in like that.
If you made the size just right,
it will just slide right in.
One of the tetrahedron edges
has become the diagonals
across the cube.
And that's another one
of the keys, by the way,
is the diagonals.
The diagonals, as you'll
see as this unfolds,
is almost always
where the hinge is.
It's where the secret of
anything you're trying to find
will usually be found
along the diagonals.
And so the tetrahedron and
the sphere will fit in there.
The octahedron is
easy, because you just
connect the centers
of it, and that
will slide right
in there perfectly,
if you get the size just right.
These two female
forms, though, it
doesn't look like they
would ever go in there
symmetrically, until you
notice something about them.
And that is if you put
them just like this
at their hexagonal view, you
have an edge in the front,
and another edge exactly
the same in the back.
And then you have
a symmetrical edge
along this side and this side
and another symmetrical edge
along the top and the bottom.
So you can take this and just
go right inside of the cube,
and this little
edge will fit right
in the center of each face,
symmetrically and perfectly.
And you can do the same
thing with this one.
You've got to turn it
just right to like this.
Now there's an edge
across the front,
and there's another edge exactly
the same across the back.
There's a left, and there's
a right, and there's a top,
and there's a bottom, and it
will just slide right in there.
And so the cube,
by its very nature,
contains the proportions
of all the other ones,
including the sphere.
And so the cube and the sphere
are the two most important
of these shapes.
This is why, for
anyone who's studied
Walter Russell-- anybody
know about Walter Russell?
Well, Walter Russell's
work, the reason
it worked-- he didn't know
anything about sacred geometry.
If he had, he would've
leaped in consciousness.
He didn't know it
existed, or he would
have been super brilliant.
He's already super
brilliant, but he
would have really went out there
if he'd have known about this.
But he picked the
two right shapes.
He picked the cube
and the sphere
to be the basis
of his philosophy.
And because he did, he was able
to do a great deal of things.
He could have
chosen other shapes,
and he would have
been incorrect.
And just even in
the Bible, the Bible
says that the throne of God
is so many cubits this way
and so many cubits this way.
And so when you make
one, it's a cube.
And the chair that all
the Egyptian sat on--
have you ever noticed it?
It's a cube with a
little back on it.
The cube is a really, really,
really important male form.
It's probably the most
male form that there
is, whereas the sphere is the
most female form that there is.
>>For the purpose of raising
one's level of consciousness,
or sending, or whatever,
what would be the most ideal
structure to have to live in?
>>You mean to sit in?
>>To live in.
Like, if you could
build your own house
any shape you wanted--
>>There's all kinds of people
trying to study that right now,
and I really don't know.
I don't think that's going
to really matter that much.
Once you get the Merkaba going,
and that aspect of your field's
going, it won't matter what the
shape of the building you're
in.
It won't matter.
No outside influence
can influence what's
internally inside the Merkaba.
But there is-- if you want
to look at [INAUDIBLE]
Mills' work, which
I'll give you,
he makes this shape
for people to get into,
a big one that
you can climb into
and has reflective things,
which are incredible.
It really is amazing when
you're inside of these things,
because of what it does, how
they reflect energy back.
And my thought was to do a
lot of Wilhelm Reich's work
with the doorbusters--
you know what that is?
He's created mirrors
for life energy
that reflect prana
using steel wool
and cotton in
certain thicknesses,
and it reflects it
just like a mirror.
You can make these blankets.
Of course, they're illegal
in the United States.
>>Really?
Why?
>>Because they don't work.
[LAUGHTER]
But if they don't
work, then who cares?
What difference does it make?
But they do work.
If you lay in one
of these things,
you can only stay
in about 30 seconds
and you go screaming
out from underneath it,
because they're so powerful.
He used to make these rooms
that look like outhouses--
because he didn't know
anything about shape-- made out
of these walls that were steel
wool and cotton and steel wool
and cotton, and certain things.
And you go in there and it
reflects all your life energy
back at you.
You can't stay in one of those
rooms more than 15 minutes.
You'll kick the door down
and get out of there.
>>Healing?
>>It's healing to a point,
but if it gets too much,
it will actually make you sick.
If you get too much, it's
just like you get OD'ed on it.
But they could make
those-- I've always
wanted to make one
of those things
like this, where it
really reflected it.
Not only did it mirror it, but
reflected it and focused it.
You could put it right
into a certain shocker,
and you'd probably stay in there
for like two seconds and jump
out, or something.
But I've never done
that kind of stuff.
There's a lot of real
fun experimentation
that you could do on
this, and the effects
that these have
on consciousness.
They do affect you dramatically.
You can just sit in them
and feel the differences.
You can also look
at the work of, say,
Greg Hogue, of
Metaforms, who makes
all kinds of pyramidal
structures and things
that you can sit in, and
experiment with that.
For example, if you sit
inside of a pyramid,
where you've got a 51 degrees,
51 minutes, 24 second degree
angle-- it's the angle
of the Great Pyramid--
and if you sit in there
and you align it properly,
and you go to sleep,
your first couple nights
might be a little strange.
But after that,
you'll find that you
get about three or four hours--
has anyone ever done this?
You probably found-- I'll
just tell you what I found,
and you can tell me if you found
the same thing-- I found three
to maybe four hours of
sleep, and you wake up,
and that's it, baby.
You don't need any more.
And what did you find?
>>I just wanted the
dimensions again.
>>Of what?
>>Of the pyramid.
>>It's just the Great Pyramid.
You can get that anywhere.
It's the angle 51 degrees,
51 minutes, 24 seconds.
And a pyramid reflects
a sphere perfectly,
if the angle is right.
And so it reflects your life
force energy right back at you,
and you just regenerate
very quickly.
This is an x-ray
pattern of a barrel--
I think it's a barrel--
yeah, it's a barrel crystal.
It's an x-ray
diffraction pattern.
And it is one of the closest
means of actually seeing
into crystals to see
how their atoms are
arranged when physically looking
in there and looking at them.
I just want to
show you this one.
Notice how the
atoms are arranged.
And you can actually see
the flower of life pattern
in there.
See it?
So why do atoms just
happen to arrange
in these sacred patterns?
This is one of the
salt crystal here.
It's another
diffraction pattern.
And if you notice, a
salt crystal is a cube.
You see the cubicle nature
of these patterns in there.
Now, these are atoms.
Each one of these little
flat spots is an atom.
And if you notice,
the atoms are spheres.
Now, what we've
really got here is
a little speck of nothingness.
If this was an atom
this big, you've
got a little tiny speck
you can hardly see,
with these electrons that are
probably somewhere around them.
The electrons are moving
around the central core
at nine-tenths the
speed of light.
The speed of light is
186,200 miles a second.
That's miles a second.
And this is a speck
you can hardly see,
and these little electrons are
moving around-- in one second,
that little electron has gone
around that point that you
can't even see, something
like 160,000 miles.
It's inconceivable.
I mean, I used to sit
there in physics going nah.
They're pulling my leg.
Nah.
And so they're moving so
fast as they move around
that you can't
see them, but they
form what's called an
electron cloud, or a sphere.
It's a spherical cloud
around the outer shell.
And so all of your
atoms that form
all of the fabric of the
nature are little spheres.
One of the most sacred
forms of the reality.
It's such an obvious one
that we don't think about it.
We live on a sphere.
The sun is a sphere.
The moon is a sphere.
And all these spheres
are all over the place,
and it just goes right over us.
We're so used to it that we
don't perceive the sacredness
of the simplicity of the shape.
It just goes right past us.
And so the whole fabric
is made out of spheres.
There's spheres
all over the place.
Light-- all the light
waves moving through space
are all spheres.
We normally think of a light
wave doing this kind of thing,
right?
But you don't have this
little thing going down there
through-- across space.
If you took, let's say,
a light inside this cube
and flashed it, and these were
flashed in all directions,
well, you don't have
a cubicle pattern
of light moving off from there.
Even though you look down
it and you see a cube,
if you looked back from a
few thousand miles back,
you'd see a cube.
But the pattern
it's going off there
isn't cubical, because
a light wave leaves
the center of this
surface going straight up,
and one second is
186,200 miles away.
The ones going off
the point of the edge
are also 186,200 miles away.
And when you think about how
far that is and the distances
between those two beams
are almost identical,
the only difference is this
little tiny bit of difference.
You couldn't see the difference.
In one second, you have
a near perfect sphere
of light leaving that cube.
In two seconds, that
little tiny difference,
which is always there,
approaches zero very,
very quickly.
It never actually reaches it.
So you have these waves
of light expanding off
of objects that are spheres.
And so all of your
light waves out
there are all these interacting
spheres of light waves.
Even if you have
really big things,
then that just means it
takes longer for them
to become spheres, is all it is.
The atoms are all
different sizes of spheres,
depending on how
many electron shells
they go out from, and what
their internal structure is.
And depending on
whether or not they
have all of their
outer electrons
or don't, and by what,
they're going to either
have a positive or negative
charge on their outer electron
shell.
And that is the primary
basis of chemistry--
what things will join and
will not join together,
though there are other factors.
Size is a big factor.
And all of those things,
again, are little spheres.
They join together in patterns.
These are the basic ones.
The linear one, two big ones,
a little one in the middle,
which is a straight line, or
3 big ones and a little one
in the middle, which is a
triangle, or in a tetrahedron,
or in an octahedron,
or in a cube.
And they now know about the
other two, the icosahedron
and dodecahedronal
patterns, which are
the rest of the possibilities.
And all other
possibilities come out
of that, which I'll be able
to show you in just a moment.
And then so you get,
say, eight little atoms
that come and form a cube.
And who knows why, but they
form this perfect cube.
And then you get four
more that come over
here and link with these four.
They form these
three-dimensional structures
that are called lattices.
So you have a cube connected to
a cube connected to a cube, et
cetera, like this.
And these are the
lattice structures
that form crystalline
structures and metals,
and these kinds of things
that exist throughout nature.
Again, no one knows why they
form these particular patterns.
All they know is they do.
Sometimes they get
very complex, forming
all kinds of geometrical
shapes inside of there.
But if you were
to carefully look
at the way the atoms
form geometrical shapes,
you would find that you would
be able to trace them back
to one of these five shapes, no
matter what the crystal ladder
structure is.
It does not make any difference.
I don't care what it is.
You could still
always trace it back
to one of the five
shapes, which I'll
try to show you in a moment.
First of all, since we're
talking about crystals,
there are a lot of
crystals out there.
Who's ever been to the
Tucson Gem and Mineral Show?
All those people just raised
your hand, you can ask them
and they'll tell you--
there are definitely
a lot of crystals in the world.
So many you can't believe it.
And they're finding
new ones all the time,
ones they've never
seen ever before,
with new atomic structures
they never knew existed.
Every year, they find new ones.
And I really don't know
how many there are.
Does anybody have any idea?
If I have to guess,
I'd say a quarter
million different-- 250,000
different kinds of crystals
that they know of.
I'm just guessing that.
I really don't know.
There's so many.
And the Tucson Gem
and Mineral Show
has about eight or
10 hotels with some
of the entire-- all
the floor structures
and every single
room in them filled
with nothing but crystals.
Then you can go into these
big auditoriums with nothing
but crystals all over there.
It's truly amazing.
It's just every single
mathematical possibility,
life has tried it and created
a different crystal to form it.
Well, all of them will be
arranged into six categories.
There are six primary categories
that no matter what the crystal
you grab a hold of,
it will fit into one
of these six categories.
And those six categories are
called isometric, tetragonal,
hexagonal, orthorhombic,
monoclinic, and triclinic.
They're all functions of a cube.
And it says-- this is straight
out of a mineralogy book--
if you go here, it says the
starting point for all crystal
patterns is the cube.
By distorting the cell,
other cells can be derived.
The isometric system is a cube.
The tetragonal cube
system is a cube
with a little piece on top.
The hexagonal system
is just a cube
looking at it from that
view, which is a hexagon.
And the orthorhombic and
the monoclinic and triclinic
systems are cubes where you
simply change the angle.
And so there are certain
angles that are distorted.
And so you've got
all the basic systems
are a function of
a cube, another one
of the sacred shapes.
Now this is where it starts
getting a little interesting.
This is a fluoride crystal.
It's in the shape
of an octahedron.
Everybody see it?
It's in the same shape as this.
It's approximate.
It's not perfect like this.
It didn't get cut this way.
It grew this way.
And actually to be a
little more precise,
the matrix of the atoms are
in the form of an octahedron.
And it comes in these sheets,
and whenever you strike it,
it breaks into these patterns.
So I would never
do this, but if I
were to drop this
on the concrete,
it would break up
into a whole bunch
of little tiny octahedrons.
This is also fluorite, only
it's in a whole bunch of cubes.
You probably can't see this,
but I'll pass them around
and let you see them.
And there's just a whole
bunch of cubes in there.
Well, if you give this
cubical fluoride enough time,
it will grow into this one, in
a couple hundred thousand years
in the right conditions.
You give this one enough time,
it will grow into this one.
One will become the other.
In mineralogy books,
they try to describe this
by showing this flat pattern.
But down here below--
can you all see these?
There's something
in crystallology
that's called truncating.
You can truncate a structure
to create a different crystal.
That simply means you can
either cut off an edge
and you do it equally
all the way around,
or you cut off the corners
equally all the way around,
or you cut off the faces
equally all the way around.
And that's called truncating.
And there's lots of ways
that that can be done.
Well, in this case of a cube,
you would truncate the corners.
So you cut each of the
corners off equally.
If you keep doing
it-- first, you
cut them off equally
all the way around,
and you get this structure.
And then you keep doing that
equally all the way around,
you'll come up with
this structure.
And then you just keep
right on doing that, you'll
come up with an octahedron.
Or the other way around--
if you take an octahedron
and cut off the tips
of it, like you cut off
each one of these tips and
you just keep doing that,
it will turn back into this
one and then into this one
and then into a cube.
It'll go either way.
You can start with this
one and get this one,
or you can start with
this one and get this one.
And we know that these
are duals of each other,
so it kind of
makes sense anyway.
But this is one
way of showing it.
And that's one way
that the textbooks
try to describe how these
two crystals can do this.
It's not saying
that's how it does it,
it's just saying
that's a logical way
to explain how in the
heck the atoms change
from cubical to octahedronal
and back again when doing this.
This is a real big
piece of fluoride.
It's about this big around.
You don't find them
that big anymore.
They're real, real, real rare.
And somebody left on a
ledge in the sunlight,
and some of the bonds that
hold the atoms together
are so weak, the sunlight-- the
excitation from the sunlight--
cracked this thing.
And if you noticed
where it cracks,
it cracks exactly along
the octahedronal lines.
This corner is a cube.
And if you truncate the
edges, you cut off the edges
all the way around, it
moves to this structure.
You keep doing it, it
turns into this one.
And it turns into
a dodecahedron.
This becomes this just
by cutting the edges off
of a cube.
Now this is fluor--
I mean, pyrite.
It grew into a cube.
It's a little bit longer--
it's not a perfect cube.
The one in the middle
grew a little bit bigger
than the other one.
But this grew this way.
If you look carefully,
it looks like somebody
cut it and polished it.
Nobody touched it.
They just took it
straight out of the earth.
It came that way.
This one is a
perfect dodecahedron.
It's just like
this, only little.
You'll have to come
up and see this later,
but it looks like somebody
cut this and shaped it,
because it is exactly like
this, only it's pyrite.
It grew this way.
Nobody touched it.
It grew into this dodecahedron.
Pyrite does exactly
the same thing.
If you give pyrite enough
time, it will grow cubical.
Give it enough time again, it'll
grow back into a dodecahedron.
The same living structure
will keep changing shape,
it'll oscillate,
over long periods
of time between these
two different structures.
Well, the dodecahedron,
if you come down here,
and you cut off the points
of the dodecahedron,
it immediately goes from this to
this, just by truncating that.
Each one of these is a
different category of crystals.
It's a whole
spectrum of crystals.
I'll show you in just a
moment here out of this book.
And if you keep truncating
the dodecahedron,
it not only turns
into an icosahedron,
if you keep doing it, the thing
will turn into an octahedron.
It'll go into one of these.
And then if you take one of
these and cut off the tip,
it turns into this one, which
is a real, real interesting one.
This is the shape right here.
This is called a
cube octahedron,
because the angles of this--
it was originally a cube.
It's been truncated this
way-- and the angles of it
form an octahedron, which you
can see that it came from.
It's in between the cube and
the octahedron, actually.
One view of it is a square
with a diamond like this.
This was considered the most
sacred shape in existence.
Buckminster Fuller, he felt
this was the key to everything.
And he had a real good reason
why he came up with this.
He gave it his own name.
He called a cube equilibrium.
And the reason is because--
this is one of them right here.
Put it like that-- is that
it has a unique property
that no other shape known has.
And that is that it can
by rotational aspects
of the bonds, it can become all
five of the Platonic solids.
And to show you,
for example, this
is already a cube in
its basic structure.
But by rotating this, it comes
down and becomes an octahedron.
You see?
Can everybody see what it is?
If you rotate them this way,
it will become a tetrahedron.
Of course, I can't line
up all of these bonds
up perfectly, because this
is a physical structure.
So you've got the cube
already, and the octahedron,
and the tetrahedron.
The icosahedron
has to be rotated.
So looking at this green
square on the front,
and you rotate it so
that the green square
forms two equilateral triangles,
and do that all the way around
for the blue one
and the green one
and the orange one,
all the way around.
You have to do it perfectly.
Just look at the green square.
So there's two equilateral
triangles in there.
That one is an icosahedron.
And if you can make
the bonds go out
the other way-- which you
can't do with this structure.
You've got to do it on a
computer or something--
then it will form
a dodecahedron.
It contains within it
all five of the shapes
by rotational patterns.
So he felt that there was
something real special
about that one, and derived
much of his philosophy
from this one shape.
There's another man named Derald
Langham-- it's D as in Darryl.
Gerald, like with a
D. Derald-- Derald
Langham's work was
given the name genesis.
He was a brilliant,
brilliant, brilliant person
who did a lot of
amazing work in botany.
He saved South America
during World War II
by creating a corn
that was like a weed.
You just threw it
out and it just grew.
And they were all
starving to death.
He saved lots of lives.
He was studying the sesame
seed, and he went in
the sesame seed and then
deeper and deeper and deeper.
And he got in the middle
of the sesame seed
and found this little cube
right in the center of it.
What's that little cube
doing down in there?
And it's kind of the
open sesame seed.
It opened his life
in a lot of ways.
He realized that the cube
was the key to seeds.
And we're only talking
about a few things,
but you can go into--
viruses, for example,
are all geometrical packages.
Diatomaceous earth, which
is the original life
patterns on the Earth, are
all geometrical structures.
You can go on and on and on.
We're only talking
about crystals here
and a few other things,
but you can carry this
through to seeds or all kinds
of other areas of life too.
And he found that a
cube was in there,
and then he found these
13 rays that came out
of this cube that
structured the seed,
and then he just
took off on that
and found out the same
pattern was around human body.
He says, wow, we're
just a big seed too.
And then he started
getting very philosophical
and went to metaphysical
school and graduated with a PhD
in metaphysics in LA
and wrote a thesis
that I read, which was
really, really good.
And since then, he
created this thing
called genesis and has thousands
of people that follow him.
He's one of the people I think
are really great, because he
took the knowledge
that he'd learned
about the grids around the
body, and he showed a way
that you could use it.
It's not just information, but
he showed a way to apply it.
And he did that through dance,
through sacred movements
of the body.
And so he has you move
in this particular way,
kind of like Tai
Chi, where you're
moving through and touching
the various grid fields
and becoming aware of them.
And it's very powerful.
There's a lot of people who
have been deeply influenced
by his work.
>>What was his name again?
>>Derald Langham.
He just died.
He was in Arizona.
But if you're
interested in that,
this paper I'm going
to be giving out
has the Human
Dimensions Institute
of North Carolina's
phone number on it,
and they have one
of the teachers
there, so she
knows all that work
and where you could
go to get that work.
So there is this grid also
around the human body,
and both him and
Buckminster Fuller
were more concerned with this
grid that was around the body
than the star tetrahedral
field, which is
what we're going to be using.
If you keep going, it turns into
a cube, and then from a cube,
you can truncate again
through these patterns
over to this one, which is
called a rhombic dodecahedron.
That happens to be the dual
of the cube equilibrium.
Those two are
together-- there's first
of five, which is like
the pentatonic scale,
and then there's two
more that are added,
which is the seven
notes of the octave.
And then there's
another five polyhedrons
that are coming
after that, which
makes the set of 12, which
corresponds with the 12
notes of the chromatic scale.
There's actually
shape associated
with all of these
things, but we've
got to tie this down a
lot stronger before we
can begin to talk about that.
Anyway, as you keep
moving through here,
you'll see how each
one of these shapes
keeps coming back through one
of the five Platonic solids,
always.
And no matter-- each one
of these, by the way,
is a different set of crystals.
This is a crystal book.
It's called Rocks and Minerals.
And I'll leave it up here
and you can look at it.
For example, over on this
side of the page over here,
it will show the
atomic structure.
In this case, it's
dodecahedronal.
And these are all the crystals
in here-- different kinds
of crystals-- that
are dodecahedronal.
All of these up here
are tetrahedral,
and these down here are cubical.
These are all cubical
crystals over here.
Some of these are unusual shapes
that when you first see them,
until you truncate
them back and find out
what the Platonic solid is
that is hidden behind them.
These are all rhombic
dodecahedronal crystals,
and these are all octahedronal
crystals down here,
showing the patterns up here.
These are all truncated
octahedronal crystals.
These are hexagonal
crystals, which
are a function of the cube.
These are hexagonal
crystals also.
These are truncated cubical
crystals, where just the tips
are cut off, up over here.
And each time you change
the internal structure
and the way the atoms
arrange themselves,
you get a physical crystal
that looks entirely different,
totally different, has different
third-dimensional worlds--
third-dimensional attributes.
So I think you can get
a pretty good idea here.
What I'm saying is that you
have-- and this is only some.
There's thousands and thousands
and thousands of these things--
but no matter which
crystal you get,
you find out what its
crystalline atomic structure,
how the atoms are
lined up, and you'll
find that you can
truncate it and come up
with one of the five
Platonic solids,
showing clearly that the
five Platonic solids is
the underlying
key underneath all
of your crystalline structures.
And all of those
five Platonic solids
came out of one of the
informational systems out
of the fruit of life, which
came out of the flower of life.
These are the kind of polyhedron
that I'm talking about,
each one having a different
quality your atoms arranging
specifically to them.
These are the external angles
that you see on the crystals.
They will always reflect
the internal angles
of the atomic atoms.
This is also a crystal.
It's a water crystal
called a snowflake,
and it's based upon hexagonal
patterns of crystals.
No two supposedly
will ever be the same.
And they're directly out
of the flower of life.
This is a periodic
table of the elements.
The elements are all
the elemental atoms,
different kinds of atoms that
create the molecules that
make the fabric of the reality.
There are two atoms on this
chart-- they're both special.
There's one atom on this
chart that we will all
recognize as being
real special to us,
and that's carbon,
because that's
the basis of organic chemistry,
of all life that we know,
what we call life.
But there's another atom on
this chart that demonstrates
on a chemical level
the functions of life
absolutely equally
just as well as carbon,
and it's the one that's
one octave below it.
This is carbon.
There's a fold in
this page here.
So there's one, two, three
four, five, six, seven, eight.
In the same grouping
directly below
it is silicon, which is what
almost all of your crystals
are made out of on Earth.
Carbon and silicon
demonstrate to the chemist
equally the principles of
life from a chemical level.
By that, what I mean
is carbon will make
all these incredible different
bonds and shapes and forms
and just this vast, vast, vast
array of different chemical
possibilities, and it'll
link with just about anything
it comes in contact with.
So will silicon--
exactly the same.
It will make these
chains and these links,
and all of these various
things, on and on and on,
and it will link with just about
anything that comes near it.
It will bond with
just about anything.
And so chemists,
for a long time,
figured that maybe there were
silicon life forms on Earth,
but they never ever found any.
And so they'd only found
carbon-based life forms,
where spirit had only entered
into carbon-based bodies.
And so then science
fiction movies,
taking up on this theme,
began in the 1950s
to make several movies about
the possibility of silicon life
forms on other planets,
because it appeared
that that was possible to do.
So they dreamed up these things.
Those guys who made
those movies never
dreamed or realized there were
silicon life forms on Earth
at the time they did it.
And it hasn't been
until just recently
that we've gone down
deep, deep, deep miles
into the crevices of
the oceans-- way, way,
way down deep-- and we found
that there are life forms down
there that are alive
and living that have
no carbon atoms in them at all.
They're totally silicon.
There are sponges
down in there--
there are silicon sponges
that are completely alive.
You'll see them in a
picture that's going
to come up here real soon.
Am I going to do that?
I don't know if I'm
going to do that or not.
But anyway, we have them
right here, right on Earth.
They really do exist.
On the other hand, we have
crystals right here, right now.
And we look at these guys, and
we say, nah, they're not alive.
They're hard.
They're not soft, like we are.
They don't breathe.
We set this criteria up
to correspond with us.
And we don't think of
them as being alive,
but they are, and
they're ancient beings.
And they've been in one body.
We think Thoth has been in
a body for 52,000 years,
and we go, wow,
that's a long time.
Well, this one's been there
for maybe half a million years.
Same body.
You know, a lot of crystals
go back for a million,
million and a half
years in the same body.
And a spirit is in there.
And what's happening
on Earth right now?
Our relationship with
silicon is so powerful.
We're not aware.
The Earth we live
on is a round ball.
It's a silicon ball.
The crust of the Earth,
which is 30 to 50 miles deep,
is made up of 25%
silicon, and it reacts
with anything it comes near.
And that crust--
we pick up earth
and we look at it
and the dirt, and we
don't see-- when you
get down a little,
just a tiny bit, the
entire crust, which
is 30 to 50 miles deep, is
made up of 87% silicon crystal.
It's almost 90%.
We're on a little crystal
ball moving through space.
We live on silicon.
And so we don't
think of them-- we
don't realize how closely
we are linked with them.
And we are almost unconsciously
making a marriage with them
right now.
We're not even really
thinking about it that much.
Our computers are all made
out of-- they run on silicon.
They run on one of the other
life forms of the planet that
is alive, from my point of
view, and conscious and aware
and has feelings and
everything else, and thinks
and can add and
subtract really fast.
[LAUGHTER]
And they like
people, a whole lot.
And we're creating
instruments that
are filled with their
essence, but based
upon our level of consciousness.
We're creating
instruments where you
have to plug in a
binary sequence that
goes on a phonograph record
to get to the memory, which
is based on the way we think.
There's other ways
it could be done.
And if you were to
just take that computer
with just a little
bit of changes,
that computer would be alive.
It would be self-aware,
and you wouldn't
have to do a lot of things
that you're doing right now.
We will come to that, because
it happens on other planets.
Eventually the silicon and
carbon of a planet link across.
And when that happens,
the planet has two eyes.
It opens up, and it
has two viewpoints,
and communication happens.
We'll eventually get
there soon, very soon.
I believe one more
year, two more years,
definitely by the
end of this century,
we'll have self-aware
computers that
will change history forever.
We'll never be the same again.
And especially
when you see what--
we're going to explain something
about them in a little bit.
However, once we see
the possibilities
of what will be capable through
a self-aware silicon computer,
it does not take
very much longer
to realize that we have the same
crystalline structure around us
and the same capabilities
and possibilities are
within us without the computer.
We can do anything
a computer can do.
We can add and subtract
at those speeds.
We can do anything the computer
can do without the computer.
They're just showing us
the possibilities of life.
They're a lot older
life form than we are.
They've been around
a lot longer.
Those are my thoughts on it.
You don't have to
believe it, of course.